Mark Twain once said that the right word
may be effective,
but no word was ever as effective
as a rightly timed pause.
Okay, that pause was too long.
But pausing after you say something controversial
or important
or the most important thing you say in a speech is crucial
as it allows people to digest what you just said.
Okay, that was the right amount of time for a pause.
Pause also between topics.
It kinda creates contrast and lets people know
that you're moving on to something else.
I guess the best way to think about a pause in a speech
is when you're writing an essay
and you put a period and then a space,
which is just a small pause in between two sentences.
And then, when you talk about a brand new topic,
it's a much bigger space,
which means you have a new paragraph,
so it's kinda like that.
Think of it that way.
And so, if you give a very long presentation,
quite often, I like to teach three to four hour
in class university sessions,
I usually give a break every one and a half to two hours,
but pausing when you're talking in general,
in between important points,
it ensures your audience
not only retains the content of your presentation,
but it gives them time to process it.
Thanks.